---
dg-publish: true
---
- [[#OVERUTILIZATION OF SURFACE AND GROUND WATER|OVERUTILIZATION OF SURFACE AND GROUND WATER]]
- [[#CONSEQUENCES OF OVERUTILIZATION|CONSEQUENCES OF OVERUTILIZATION]]
	- [[#CONSEQUENCES OF OVERUTILIZATION#1. Climate Change|1. Climate Change]]
	- [[#CONSEQUENCES OF OVERUTILIZATION#2. Floods & Draughts|2. Floods & Draughts]]



## OVERUTILIZATION OF SURFACE AND GROUND WATER

1. Water scarcity has become a burning <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">global issue.</mark> The UN has held <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">several conventions</mark> on water in recent decades. 
2. <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">Continuous overutilization</mark> and <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">increased man-induced water pollution</mark> of surface and ground water has led to <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">virtual water scarcity</mark> in the world today.

3. As a result, there has been <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">continuous overutilization of the existing water source</mark>s due to mammoth growth in world <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">population</mark>
6. <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">Groundwater is the major source </mark>of water in many parts of the world. there has been <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">continuous depletion of this source due to its overexploitation</mark> by rising human <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">population</mark> and the rapid rise in industrialization and urbanization in modern times
7. <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">Nearly three billion people in the world suffer from water scarcity</mark>.
8. **International rivalries on water** The ongoing Jordan River conflict, Nile River conflict, and Aral Sea conflict are cases in point. 

## CONSEQUENCES OF OVERUTILIZATION

### 1. Climate Change
1. <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">Impact on the drainage pattern and hydrological cycle</mark> on the earth thereby severely <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">affecting the surface and groundwater availability</mark>
2. <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">rise the global temperature at an increasing pace. </mark>Temperature increase affects the hydrological cycle by directly <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">increasing evaporation</mark> of available surface water and <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">vegetation transpiration.</mark>

•As a result, precipitation amount, timing and intensity rates are largely affected. It impacts the flux and storage of water in surface and subsurface reservoirs.

### 2. Floods & Draughts

1. Floods and droughts are two well-known natural hazards in the world.
2. The former is due to excess in water flow and the latter is due to scarcity of water.
3. The amount of rainfall received by an area varies from one place to another depending on the location of the place. 
4. In some places it rains almost throughout the year whereas in other places it might rain for only few days. India records most of its rainfall in the monsoon season.
5. Heavy rains lead to rise in the water level of rivers, seas, and oceans. Water gets accumulated in the coastal areas, which results in floods.
6. Floods bring in extensive damage to crops, domestic animals, property and human life. During floods, many animals get carried away by the force of water and eventually die.
7. On the other hand, droughts set in when a particular region goes without rain for a long period of time. In the meantime, the soil will continuously lose groundwater by the process of evaporation and transpiration. 
8. Since this water is not brought back to earth in the form of rains, the soil becomes very dry.