---
dg-publish: true
---
- [[#1. Non-Renewable Energy Resources:|1. Non-Renewable Energy Resources:]]
	- [[#1. Non-Renewable Energy Resources:#1. Fossil Fuels|1. Fossil Fuels]]
	- [[#1. Non-Renewable Energy Resources:#2. Nuclear Energy:|2. Nuclear Energy:]]
- [[#2. Renewable Energy Resources:|2. Renewable Energy Resources:]]
	- [[#2. Renewable Energy Resources:#1. Solar Energy:|1. Solar Energy:]]
	- [[#2. Renewable Energy Resources:#2. Wind Energy:|2. Wind Energy:]]
	- [[#2. Renewable Energy Resources:#3. Hydropower:|3. Hydropower:]]
	- [[#2. Renewable Energy Resources:#4. Tidal and wave power|4. Tidal and wave power]]
	- [[#2. Renewable Energy Resources:#5. Biomass:|5. Biomass:]]
	- [[#2. Renewable Energy Resources:#6. Geothermal Energy:|6. Geothermal Energy:]]


1. Energy resources are essential components that power the modern world, driving technological advancements, economic activities, and daily life.
2. Energy - capacity to do work. 
3. \variety of forms, some of which are immediately useful to do work, while others require a process of transformation. 
4. The <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">sun is the primary energy source in our lives.</mark> 
5. Besides, <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">water, fossil fuels such as coal, petroleum products, water, nuclear power plants are sources of energy.</mark>

**These resources can be classified into two main categories: renewable and non-renewable.****
**
## 1. Non-Renewable Energy Resources:
### 1. Fossil Fuels
These include coal, oil, and natural gas, formed from the remains of ancient plants and animals. Fossil fuels are the predominant sources of energy globally, but their combustion releases carbon dioxide, contributing to climate change.
### 2. Nuclear Energy:
Derived from the fission of uranium or plutonium atoms in nuclear reactors, nuclear energy produces electricity without direct greenhouse gas emissions. However, concerns about nuclear safety and radioactive waste management exist.

## 2. Renewable Energy Resources:
   1. Renewable energy systems use resources that are constantly replenished and are usually less polluting. 
### 1. Solar Energy: 
   Captured from the sun's rays using photovoltaic cells, solar energy is a clean and abundant source. It is harnessed for electricity generation and heating applications.
### 2. Wind Energy:
Generated by harnessing the kinetic energy of the wind through wind turbines, wind energy is an environmentally friendly option for electricity production.
### 3. Hydropower:
By utilizing the energy of flowing water in rivers or dams, hydropower generates electricity. It is a well-established and widely used renewable energy source.
### 4. Tidal and wave power
### 5. Biomass:
Derived from organic materials such as wood, crop residues, and waste, biomass can be converted into biofuels for heating or electricity generation.
### 6. Geothermal Energy:
Tapping into the <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">Earth's internal heat, geothermal energy is harnessed for electricity production and direct heating applications.</mark>

1. The<mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;"> shift towards renewable energy sources is driven by</mark> concerns about **climate change**, **environmental sustainability**, and the **finite nature of non-renewable resources**. 
2. Governments, businesses, and individuals are increasingly investing in and adopting cleaner energy technologies to <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">reduce carbon emissions and promote a more sustainable energy future</mark>. The development and integration of energy storage technologies and smart grids are also crucial for optimizing the use of renewable energy sources and ensuring a reliable energy supply.