---
dg-publish: true
---
## Members involved in Software engineering 

1. A Software Development team has a great role to give life to any software application. 
2. A software team structure consists of various members from various fields having specific responsibilities.
3. Starting from the design and development to final delivery, in each stage the software project depends on the team.
4. When the software development team will be better the outcome will be always the best.
5. That’s why in a software development team proper hierarchy is followed which helps in maintaining better relationships with each other and most important is roles and responsibilities in a software development team are defined so the software projects only move forward smoothly.

1. Product Owner 
	1. Product owner refers to an individual who has the knowledge of how a terminal product or the outcome should look like.
	2. They have an enormous idea about the project and its users. Moreover, they understand the client’s requirements, therefore they are in the predominant position to lead the development towards an adequate terminal product
2. Project Manager
	1. The project manager is accountable for knowing the “who, what, where, when, and why of the software plan. • AProject Manager in a software development team often deals with various crucial roles and responsibilities including: Membersinvolved in software development • Making a software plan. • Developing a schedule. • Planning a budget. • Executing it in a proper manner. • Lastly, Develop the project.
3. 3. Team Lead • The team lead takes measures as a mentor to help the whole team in keeping the task-focused, to deliver work on time, and meeting the project aim. Also, they have to conduct the team for a better outcome. The leader should have the leadership qualities for maintaining good communication between the development team and clients. Also, they are liable for conflicts, prevention, and resolution. Team lead uses the same tool as a developer or designer use, with some extra required tools like Toggl Plan, Slack, MS Teams, Minute, etc
4. Software Developers • They are responsible for utilizing the technical requirements from the technical leads to form cost and deadline estimates. • They write code and evolve the software products. Developers are the actual members whowrite code to make the softwarefunction. • The team members have to communicate the technical requirements to the developers to reduce project risk, give ideas, and achieve great success. Some of the tools which are used by software developers (backend) are Eclipse, VS Code, Postman, Jenkins, Github, Stack Overflow, Jira, Chrome DevTools, Docker, and other programming frameworks and tools as well.\
5. Testers • Testers are in-charge of ensuring the software solution meets the demands and complies with the qualities level. They need to understand feature requirements. Also, they form and execute test cases to detect bugs or deficiencies. Some of the tools which are used by software testers are Selenium, TestingWhiz, TestComplete, Katalon Studio, Postman, Jira, Apache JMeter, etc.
6. UI Designer • The utmost duty of the UI designer is to prepare or design the user affiliate. They transfer content, graphics, style affix with a client. They prepare templates using prototyping tools. With a UX designer and front-end developers, they work on providing solutions to meet expectations and needs. Some tools which are used by UI Designer are Adobe XD, Axure, Figma, Sketch, Visual Studio Code, etc.
7. UXDesigner • UX designer means user experience. It is characterized by a less ‘digital’ perspective to a user affix. They have to assure that end-user has the best experience while working on the application. They have to be in contact with the continuous human-computer interaction method.
8. Business Analyst • A business analyst is accountable for comprehending business needs into requirements and making sure they are documented perfectly before a compound is formed and implemented. They describe, analyze and control technology and business needs throughout the cycle. They accompany the consumer so that they don’t have any doubt about the project. They make decisions and carry out meetings of the project’s methodology
9. Software Architect: • A software architect is a person liable for describing the complete architecture system of a project. They do high-level designing based on non-frictional needs and dictate coding standards with tools and platforms. They define the technical and functional architecture of the entire system. They guide developers to make critical components of the system. They give ideas about the best alternatives given the engineering and business aspect
10. Quality Assurance (QA) Engineer • AQAperson is liable for making equipment that allows automating processes that identify and verify the software quality. They shorten stability verification time. They check if the work on new features didn’t cause errors in the already existing and functioning system